Cgroupsv2 (#1216)
rug-cit-hpc/league-of-robots: roles/logins/README.md

# Cgroups limitation

## PAM

Systemd manages all users slices. These slices are located under main `user.slice`.
Cgroups v2 can be managed separately, but users cannot be moved into another slice hierarchy,
because `systemd` already exclusively manages user slices.

Therefore we manage user's resource availability, with help of systemd slice
modification. Limitation on the slice is per individual user.

This is done with helper script, that gets automatically executed every time a
new user logs into the system via ssh.

This is done with the following line in the `/etc/pam.d/sshd` file

```

>      session    optional     pam_exec.so /etc/security/limitedusers.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     session    optional     pam_exec.so /etc/pam-script.d/limitedusers.sh
```

```

> A script `/etc/security/limitedusers.sh` is called at the login, but upon error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A script `/etc/pam-script.d/limitedusers.sh` is called at the login, but upon error
```

# Cgroups limitation

## PAM

Systemd manages all users slices. These slices are located under main `user.slice`.

> Cgroups v2 can be managed separately, but users still cannot be moved into those
> because systemd already exclusively manage user slice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cgroups v2 can be managed separately, but users cannot be moved into another slice hierarchy,
because `systemd` already exclusively manages user slices.
```

Therefore we manage user's resource availability, with help of systemd slice
modification. Limitation on the slice is per individual user.

This is done with helper script, that gets automatically executed every time a
new user logs into the system via ssh.

This is done with the following line in the `/etc/pam.d/sshd` file

```
     session    optional     pam_exec.so /etc/security/limitedusers.sh
```

A script `/etc/security/limitedusers.sh` is called at the login, but upon error
the login stil gets processed.

## Script

> The script uses systemd's command line to modify user slice. `systemctl` limit
> CPU and RAM of the users .slice. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script uses systemd's command line tool `systemctl` to modify the CPU and RAM limit of the user's slice. 
```

Script controls users that

 - have UID > 1000
 - are not part of the admin group

> Users that get elevated permissions, are still on the SAME slice limitation as
> user that executed su or sudo command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users that gain elevated permissions by switching to another account using `su` or `sudo` are still on the *same* slice and hence cannot escape the limits from their original login account.
```
